# Getting and Cleaning Data Course Project

## Purpose
Collect, work with, and clean a data set that can be used for later analysis.

## Background
Companies like Fitbit, Nike, and Jawbone Up are racing to develop the most advanced algorithms to attract new users. The data linked to from the course website represent data collected from the accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone. This Human Activity Recognition database built from the recordings of 30 subjects performing activities of daily living (ADL) while carrying a waist-mounted smartphone with embedded inertial sensors.

* A full description is available at the site where the data was obtained: http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones

* Data for the project: https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip

## Requirements
(1) Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.  

(2) Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.  

(3) Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set.  

(4) Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names.  

(5) From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.  

## Output
(1) a code book called CodeBook.md. It describes the variables, the data, and any transformations or work that you performed to clean up the data.  

(2) a script called run_analysis.R. It performs the analysis based on the requirements.  

(3) a tidy data set called tidy.txt. It is generated by run_analysis.R.


## Relevant Papers:

Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. Human Activity Recognition on Smartphones using a Multiclass Hardware-Friendly Support Vector Machine. International Workshop of Ambient Assisted Living (IWAAL 2012). Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain. Dec 2012 

Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra, Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. Energy Efficient Smartphone-Based Activity Recognition using Fixed-Point Arithmetic. Journal of Universal Computer Science. Special Issue in Ambient Assisted Living: Home Care. Volume 19, Issue 9. May 2013

Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. Human Activity Recognition on Smartphones using a Multiclass Hardware-Friendly Support Vector Machine. 4th International Workshop of Ambient Assited Living, IWAAL 2012, Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain, December 3-5, 2012. Proceedings. Lecture Notes in Computer Science 2012, pp 216-223. 

Jorge Luis Reyes-Ortiz, Alessandro Ghio, Xavier Parra-Llanas, Davide Anguita, Joan Cabestany, Andreu Català. Human Activity and Motion Disorder Recognition: Towards Smarter Interactive Cognitive Environments. 21th European Symposium on Artificial Neural Networks, Computational Intelligence and Machine Learning, ESANN 2013. Bruges, Belgium 24-26 April 2013.
